it looks like it belongs in the scene, and moves naturally with the camera motion in
the case of video. Given an image with a marker plane as in the section above, we
can compute the camera's position and pose and use that to place computer graphics
models so that they are rendered correctly. In this last section of our camera chapter
we will show how to build a simple AR example. We will use two tools for this, PyGame
and PyOpenGL.

PyGame and PyOpenGL

PyGame is a popular package for game development that easily handles display win-
dows, input devices, events and much more. PyGame is open source and available
from http : //www. pygame . org/. It is actually a Python binding for the SDL game en-
gine. For installation instructions, see the Appendix. For more details on programming
with PyGame, see for example [21].

PyOpenGL is the Python binding to the OpenGL graphics programming interface.
OpenGL comes pre-installed on almost all systems and is a crucial part for graph-
ics performance. OpenGL is cross platform and works the same across operating
systems. Take a look at http: //www. openg1.org/ for more information on OpenGL.
The getting started page (http://www.openg1.org/wiki/Getting_started) has re-
sources for beginners. PyOpenGL is open source and easy to install, see the Ap-
pendix for details. More information can be found on the project website http:
//pyopeng1.sou rceforge.net/.

There is no way we can cover any signiﬁcant portion of OpenGL programming,
we will instead just show the important parts, for example how to use camera ma-
trices in OpenGL and setting up a basic 3D model. Some good examples and de-
mos are available in the PyOpenGL-Demo package (http : //pypi . python . org/pypi/
Py0penGL- Demo). This is a good place to start if you are new to PyOpenGL.

We want to place a 3D model in a scene using OpenGL. To use PyGame and Py-
OpenGL for this application we need to import the following at the top of our scripts:
from 0penGL.GL import *
from 0penGL.GLU import *

import pygame, pygame.image
from pygame.1ocals import *

As you can see we need two main parts from OpenGL. The GL part contains all func-
tions stating with "gl", which you will see are most of the ones we need. The GLU
part is the OpenGL Utility library and contains some higher-level functionality. We will
mainly use it to set up the camera projection. The pygame part sets up the window
and event controls, and pygame.image is used for loading image and creating OpenGL
textures. The pygame.1oca1s is needed for setting up the display area for OpenGL.

1 1 6 4.4. Augmented Reality

