and zeros everywhere else. This model is also called a bag-of-word representation
since order and location of words is ignored.

Documents are indexed by doing a word count to construct the document his-
togram vector v, usually with common words like "the", "and", "is" etc. ignored. These
common words are called stop words. To compensate for document length, the vec-
tors can be normalized to unit length by dividing with the total histogram sum. The
individual components of the histogram vector are usually weighted according to the
importance of each word. Usually, the importance of a word increases proportional
to how often it appears in the document but decreases if the word is common in all
documents in a data set (or "corpus").

The most common weighting is tf-idf weighting (term frequency - inverse document
frequency) where the term frequency of a word w in document d, is

nu)

tf =
w,d   7

where n,,, is the number of occurrences of w in d. To normalize, this is divided by the
total number of occurrences of all words in the document.
The inverse document frequency is

|D|

idf,,,7 = loge ,
“ |{d : w e d}|

where |D| is the number of documents in the corpus D and the denominator the num-
ber of documents d in D containing w. Multiplying the two gives the tf-idf weight which
is then the elements in v. You can read more about tf-idf at http://en .wikipedia.
org/wiki/Tf- idf.

This is really all we need at the moment. Let's see how to carry this model over to
indexing and searching images based on their visual content.

7.2 Visual Words

To apply text mining techniques to images, we ﬁrst need to create the visual equiva-
lent of words. This is usually done using local descriptors like the SIFT descriptor in
Section 2.2. The idea is to quantize the descriptor space into a number of typical exam-
ples and assign each descriptor in the image to one of those examples. These typical
examples are determined by analyzing a training set of images and can be considered
as visual words and the set of all words is then a visual vocabulary (sometimes called
a visual codebook). This vocabulary can be created speciﬁcally for a given problem or
type of images or just try to represent visual content in general.

186 7.2. Visual Words

