5.4 Stereo Images

A special case of multi-view imaging is stereo vision (or stereo imaging) where two
cameras are observing the same scene with only a horizontal (sideways) displacement
between the cameras. When the cameras are conﬁgured so that the two images have
the same image plane with the image rows vertically aligned, the image pair is said to
be rectiﬁed . This is common in robotics and such a setup is often called a stereo rig.

Any stereo camera setup can be rectiﬁed by warping the images to a common plane
so that the epipolar lines are image rows (a stereo rig is usually constructed to give
such rectiﬁed image pairs). This is outside the scope of this section but the interested
reader can ﬁnd the details in [13] (page 303) or [3] (page 430).

Assuming that the two images are rectiﬁed, ﬁnding correspondences is constrained
to searching along image rows. Once a corresponding point is found, its depth (Z co-
ordinate) can be computed directly from the horizontal displacement as it is inversely
proportional to the displacement,

fb

Z: ,
$l—$r

where f is the rectiﬁed image focal length, (9 the distance between the camera cen-
ters, and $1 and x, the x-coordinate of the corresponding point in the left and right
image. The distance separating the camera centers is called the baseline. Figure 5.9
illustrates a rectiﬁed stereo camera setup.

Stereo reconstruction (sometimes called dense depth reconstruction) is the prob-
lem of recovering a depth map (or inversely a disparity map) where the depth (or dis-
parity) for each pixel in the image is estimated. This is a classic problem in computer
vision and there are many algorithms for solving it. The Middlebury Stereo Vision
Page (http://vision .midd1ebury.edu/stereo/) contains a constantly updated eval-
uation of the best algorithms with code and descriptions of many implementations. In
the next section we will implement a stereo reconstruction algorithm based on nor-
malized cross correlation.

Computing disparity maps

In this stereo reconstruction algorithm we will try a range of displacements and record
the best displacement for each pixel by selecting the one with the best score according
to normalized cross correlation of the local image neighborhood. This is sometimes
called plane sweeping since each displacement step corresponds to a plane at some
depth. While not exactly state of the art in stereo reconstruction, this is a simple
method that usually gives decent results.

152 5.4. Stereo Images

