Because of this ambiguity, when analyzing two view geometry we can always transform
the cameras with a homography to simplify matters. Often this homography is just a
rigid transformation to change the coordinate system. A good choice is to set the
origin and coordinate axis to align with the ﬁrst camera so that

P1 =  I  and P2  | 13] .

Here we use the same notation as in Chapter 4; K1 and K 2 are the calibration matrices,
R is the rotation of the second camera, and t is the translation of the second camera.
Using these camera matrices one can derive a condition for the projection of a point X
to image points x1 and x2 (with P1 and P2 respectively). This condition is what makes
it possible to recover the camera matrices from corresponding image points.
The following equation must be satisﬁed

x§Fx1=0, (5.1)

where
F = K;T stn Kfl

and the matrix St is the skew symmetric matrix

0 -153 f2
St = 153 0 -231 . (5.2)
-152 f1 0

Equation (5.1) is called the epipolar constraint. The matrix F in the epipolar constraint
is called the fundamental matrix and as you can see, it is expressed in components of
the two camera matrices (their relative rotation R and translation t). The fundamental
matrix has rank 2 and det(F) = 0. This will be used in algorithms for estimating F.
The fundamental matrix makes it possible to compute the camera matrices and then a
3D reconstruction.

The equations above mean that the camera matrices can be recovered from F,
which in turn can be computed from point correspondences as we will see later. With-
out knowing the internal calibration (K 1 and K 2) the camera matrices are only recover-
able up to a projective transformation. With known calibration, the reconstruction will
be metric. A metric reconstruction is a 3D reconstruction that correctly represents
distances and anglesl.

There is one ﬁnal piece of geometry needed before we can proceed to actually
using this theory on some image data. Given a point in one of the images, for example
x2 in the second view, equation (5.1) deﬁnes a line in the ﬁrst image since

xgFx1=l{x1=O.

1The absolute scale of the reconstruction cannot be recovered but that is rarely a problem.

128 5.1. Epipolar Geometry

