9.2 Segmentation using Clustering

The graph cut formulation in the previous section solves the segmentation problem
by ﬁnding a discrete solution using max ﬂow / min cut over an image graph. In this
section we will look at an alternative way to cut the image graph. The normalized
cut algorithm, based on spectral graph theory, combines pixel similarities with spatial
proximity to segment the image.

The idea comes from deﬁning a cut cost that takes into account the size of the
groups and "normalizes" the cost with the size of the partitions. The normalized cut
formulation modiﬁes the cut cost of equation (9.1) to

Ecut + Ecut
Zia/1 wins ZjEB wjm
where A and B indicate the two sets of the cut and the sums add the weights from
A and B respectively to all other nodes in the graph (which is pixels in the image in
this case). This sum is called the association and for images where pixels have the
same number of connections to other pixels it is a rough measure of the size of the
partitions. In the paper [32] the cost function above was introduced together with an
algorithm for ﬁnding a minimizer. The algorithm is derived for two-class segmentation
and will be described next.

Deﬁne W as the edge weight matrix with elements w,-j containing the weight of the
edge connecting pixel 2' with pixel j. Let D be the diagonal matrix of the row sums of S,
D = diag(d,-), d,- = Zj w,-j (same as in Section 6.3). The normalized cut segmentation
is obtained as the minimum of the following optimization problem

. yT(D - W)y
min T
y yTDy

Encut : 7

where the vector y contains the discrete labels that satisfy the constraints y,- E {1, —b}
for some constant (9 (meaning that y only takes two discrete values) and yTD sum to
zero. Because of these constraints, this is not easily solvable4.

However, by relaxing the constraints and letting y take any real value, the problem
becomes an eigenvalue problem that is easily solved. The drawback is that you need
to threshold or cluster the output to make it a discrete segmentation again.

Relaxing the problem results in solving for eigenvectors of a Laplacian matrix

L = D‘1/2WD‘1/2 ,

just like the spectral clustering case. The only remaining difﬁculty is now to deﬁne the
between-pixel edge weights w,-j. Normalized cuts have many similarities to spectral

4In fact this problem is NP—hard.

248 9.2. Segmentation using Clustering

