Chapter 5 Explains how to work with several images of the same scene, the fun-
damentals of multiple-view geometry and how to compute 3D reconstructions from
images.

Chapter 6 Introduces a number of clustering methods and shows how to use them
for grouping and organizing images based on similarity or content.

Chapter 7 Shows how to build efﬁcient image retrieval techniques that can store
image representations and search for images based on their visual content.

Chapter 8 Describes algorithms for classifying image content and how to use them
recognizing objects in images.

Chapter 9 Introduces different techniques for dividing an image into meaningful
regions using clustering, user interactions or image models.

Chapter 10 Shows how to use the Python interface for the commonly used OpenCV
computer vision library and how to work with video and camera input.

Introduction to Computer Vision

Computer vision is the automated extraction of information from images. Information
can mean anything from 3D models, camera position, object detection and recognition
to grouping and searching image content. In this book we take a wide deﬁnition of
computer vision and include things like image warping, de-noising and augmented
realityl.

Sometimes computer vision tries to mimic human vision, sometimes uses a data
and statistical approach, sometimes geometry is the key to solving problems. We will
try to cover all of these angles in this book.

Practical computer vision contains a mix of programming, modeling, and mathe-
matics and is sometimes difﬁcult to grasp. I have deliberately tried to present the ma-
terial with a minimum of theory in the spirit of "as simple as possible but no simpler".
The mathematical parts of the presentation are there to help readers understand the
algorithms. Some chapters are by nature very math heavy (chapters 4 and 5 mainly).
Readers can skip the math if they like and still use the example code.

1These examples produce new images and are more image processing than actually extracting infor-
mation from images.

CONTENTS 9

