The ﬁrst part speciﬁes which IP address and port to use. The second part enables a
local folder for reading (in this case "tmp/"). This should be set to the folder containing
your images.

Note: Don ’t put anything secret in that folder ifyou plan to show this to people. The
content of the folder will be accessible through CherIyPy.

Start you web server with

$ python searchdemo.py

from the command line. Opening your browser and pointing it at the right URL (in this
case http : // 127 . 0 . 0 . 1 : 8080/) should show the initial screen with a random selection
of images. This should look like Figure 7.4a. Clicking an image starts a query and
shows the top results. Clicking an image in the results starts a new query with that
image, and so on. There is a link to get back to the starting state of a random selection
(by passing an empty query). Some examples are shown in Figure 7.4.

This example shows a full integration from webpage to database queries and pre-
sentation of results. Naturally, we kept the styling and options to a minimum and there
are many possibilities for improvement. For example, adding a stylesheet to make it
prettier or upload ﬁles to use as queries.

Exercises

1. Try to speed up queries by only using part of the words in the query image to
construct the list of candidates. Use the idf weight as a criteria for which words
to use.

2. Implement a visual stop word list of the most common visual words in your vo-
cabulary (say the top 10%) and ignore these words. How does this change the
search quality?

3. Visualize a visual word by saving all image features that are mapped to a given
word id. Crop image patches around the feature locations (at the given scale)
and plot them in a ﬁgure. Do the patches for a given word look the same?

4. Experiment with using different distance measures and weighting in the query()
method. Use the score from compute_ukbench_score() to measure your progress.

5. Throughout this chapter we only used SIFT features in our vocabulary. This
completely disregards the color information as you can see in the example results

206 7.6. Building Demos and Web Applications

