axis('off')

Figure 2.2 shows an example of ﬁnding such corresponding points using normal-
ized cross correlation (in this case with 11 x 11 pixels in a patch) using the commands:
wid = 5
harrisim = harris.compute_harris,response(im1,5)

fi1tered,coordsl = harris.get,harris,points(harrisim,wid+1)
d1 = harris.get,descriptors(im1,fi1tered,coordsl,wid)

harrisim = harris.compute_harris,response(im2,5)
fi1tered,coords2 = harris.get,harris,points(harrisim,wid+1)
d2 = harris.get,descriptors(im2,fi1tered,coords2,wid)

print 'starting matching’
matches = harris.match,twosided(dl,d2)

figure()

9Fay()
harris.p1ot_matches(iml,im2,fi1tered_coords1,fi1tered_coords2,matches)
show()

If you only want to plot a subset of the matches to make the visualization clearer,
substitute matches with for example matches[.-100] or a random set of indices.

As you can see in Figure 2.2, there are quite a lot of incorrect matches. This
is because cross correlation on image patches is not as descriptive as more modern
approaches. As a consequence, it is important to use robust methods for handling
these correspondences in an application. Another problem is that these descriptors
are not invariant to scale or rotation and the choice of patch sizes affect the results.

In recent years there has been a lot of development in improving feature point
detection and description. Let's take a look at one of the best algorithms in the next
section.

2.2 SIFT - Scale-Invariant Feature Transform

One of the most successful local image descriptors in the last decade is the Scale-
Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT), introduced by David Lowe in [17]. SIFT was later
reﬁned and described in detail in the paper [18] and has stood the test of time. SIFT
includes both an interest point detector and a descriptor. The descriptor is very robust
and is largely the reason behind the success and popularity of SIFT Since its introduc-
tion many alternatives have been proposed with essentially the same type of descrip-
tor. The descriptor is nowadays often combined with many different interest point
detectors (and region detectors for that matter) and sometimes even applied densely

52 2.2. SIFT — Scale—Invariant Feature Transform

